README.md, before:

## aiotractive

![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/zhulik/aiotractive/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg?branch=main)

**Unofficial** Asynchronous Python client for the [Tractive](https://tractive.com) REST API.

**This project and its author are not affiliated with Tractive GmbH**

This project is a result of reverse engineering of the Tractive web app.

Inspired by [home_assistant_tractive](https://github.com/Danielhiversen/home_assistant_tractive).

Initially some code was borrowed from home_assistant_tractive, but in the end all of it was replaced with my own implementations.

The package is in active development. **Not all features available in the Tractive web app are implemented.**

Important notes:

- In order to use Tractive devices and their service you need to have an active subscription.
- Tractive may change their API at any point of time and this project will be broken. Please, report any issues.

## Installation

`pip install aiotractive`

## Usage

```python
import asyncio

from aiotractive import Tractive

async def main():
  async with Tractive("email", "password") as client:
    # interact with the client here
    pass

if __name__ == "__main__":
  asyncio.run(main())
```


### Tractive

Tractive is the entrypoint class, it acts as an async context manager and provides access to API endpoints.

#### Authentication

```python
client.authenticate()

# {'user_id': 'user_id', 'client_id': 'client_id', 'expires_at': 1626821491, 'access_token': 'long access token'}
```

#### Trackers

```python
trackers = await client.trackers()
tracker = trackers[0]

# Or

tracker = client.tracker("TRACKER_ID")

# Retrieve details
await tracker.details() # Includes device capabilities, battery status (not level), charging state and so on

await tracker.hw_info() # Includes battery level, firmware version, model and so on

# Retrieve current location
await tracker.pos_report() # Includes coordinates, latitude, speed and so on

# Retrieve history positions
now = datetime.timestamp(datetime.now())
time_from = now - 3600 * LAST_HOURS
time_to = now
fmt = "json_segments"
await tracker.positions(time_from, time_to, fmt)

# Control the buzzer
await tracker.set_buzzer_active(True) # or False

# Control the LED
await tracker.set_led_active(True) # or False

# Control the live tracking
await tracker.set_live_tracking_active(True) # or False
```

#### Trackable objects (usually pets)
```python
objects = await client.trackable_objects()
obj = objects[0]

# Or get a specific trackable object by ID
obj = client.trackable_object("TRACKABLE_ID")

# Retrieve details
await obj.details() # Includes pet's name, pet's tracker id and so on

# Retrieve health overview (activity, sleep, rest, and health metrics)
await obj.health_overview()
```

#### Events

```python
async for event in client.events():
    pp(event)

```

After connecting you will immediately receive one `tracker_status` event per owned tracker.
The first event always includes full current status of the tracker including current position, battery level, states of the buzzer,
the LED and the live tracking.

All following events will have the same name, but only include one of these: either a position, battery info, or a buzzer/LED/live
status.

## Exceptions

The library raises the following exceptions:

- `TractiveError` - Base exception class
- `UnauthorizedError` - When authentication fails or token is invalid
- `NotFoundError` - When the requested resource is not found (404)
- `DisconnectedError` - When the event channel disconnects

## Creating a development environment

- `pipenv install --dev`
- `pipenv shell`
- `pre-commit install`

## Contribution
You know;)

Commit message:

Add type hints to all public APIs
- Add type annotations to all modules (api, tracker, trackable_object, channel, tractive, data_object, exceptions)

- Add py.typed marker for PEP 561 compliance

- Add mypy to dev dependencies and lint target

- Configure mypy in pyproject.toml

- Update README with Type Hints section

- Update CI workflow to run make lint explicitly

README.md, after:

﻿## aiotractive

![Continuous Integration](https://github.com/zhulik/aiotractive/workflows/Continuous%20Integration/badge.svg?branch=main)

**Unofficial** Asynchronous Python client for the [Tractive](https://tractive.com) REST API.

**This project and its author are not affiliated with Tractive GmbH**

This project is a result of reverse engineering of the Tractive web app.

Inspired by [home_assistant_tractive](https://github.com/Danielhiversen/home_assistant_tractive).

Initially some code was borrowed from home_assistant_tractive, but in the end all of it was replaced with my own implementations.

The package is in active development. **Not all features available in the Tractive web app are implemented.**

Important notes:

- In order to use Tractive devices and their service you need to have an active subscription.
- Tractive may change their API at any point of time and this project will be broken. Please, report any issues.

## Installation

`pip install aiotractive`

## Usage

```python
import asyncio

from aiotractive import Tractive

async def main():
  async with Tractive("email", "password") as client:
    # interact with the client here
    pass

if __name__ == "__main__":
  asyncio.run(main())
```


### Tractive

Tractive is the entrypoint class, it acts as an async context manager and provides access to API endpoints.

#### Authentication

```python
client.authenticate()

# {'user_id': 'user_id', 'client_id': 'client_id', 'expires_at': 1626821491, 'access_token': 'long access token'}
```

#### Trackers

```python
trackers = await client.trackers()
tracker = trackers[0]

# Or

tracker = client.tracker("TRACKER_ID")

# Retrieve details
await tracker.details() # Includes device capabilities, battery status (not level), charging state and so on

await tracker.hw_info() # Includes battery level, firmware version, model and so on

# Retrieve current location
await tracker.pos_report() # Includes coordinates, latitude, speed and so on

# Retrieve history positions
now = datetime.timestamp(datetime.now())
time_from = now - 3600 * LAST_HOURS
time_to = now
fmt = "json_segments"
await tracker.positions(time_from, time_to, fmt)

# Control the buzzer
await tracker.set_buzzer_active(True) # or False

# Control the LED
await tracker.set_led_active(True) # or False

# Control the live tracking
await tracker.set_live_tracking_active(True) # or False
```

#### Trackable objects (usually pets)
```python
objects = await client.trackable_objects()
obj = objects[0]

# Or get a specific trackable object by ID
obj = client.trackable_object("TRACKABLE_ID")

# Retrieve details
await obj.details() # Includes pet's name, pet's tracker id and so on

# Retrieve health overview (activity, sleep, rest, and health metrics)
await obj.health_overview()
```

#### Events

```python
async for event in client.events():
    pp(event)

```

After connecting you will immediately receive one `tracker_status` event per owned tracker.
The first event always includes full current status of the tracker including current position, battery level, states of the buzzer,
the LED and the live tracking.

All following events will have the same name, but only include one of these: either a position, battery info, or a buzzer/LED/live
status.

## Exceptions

The library raises the following exceptions:

- `TractiveError` - Base exception class
- `UnauthorizedError` - When authentication fails or token is invalid
- `NotFoundError` - When the requested resource is not found (404)
- `DisconnectedError` - When the event channel disconnects

## Type Hints

This library is fully typed and includes a `py.typed` marker for [PEP 561](https://peps.python.org/pep-0561/) compliance. Type checkers like `mypy` will recognize the inline type hints.

## Creating a development environment

- `pipenv install --dev`
- `pipenv shell`
- `pre-commit install`

## Contribution
You know;)
